Greetings to all esteemed fellow practitioners and
friends! At the beginning of the new year, for
those who are still working in
jobs involving
paperwork,
teaching, career advancement, or
academic pursuits, it's common to
perform the "opening of the pen" ritual. Back in the day, when I was a
child, there wasn't a single year I didn't perform this ritual. From the time I started kindergarten, my
parents would make all my
siblings and I write during Tet (Lunar New Year). And
so, I
myself would write at the beginning of the year.
My writing was
very simple; I'd choose
things related to
my studies, the subjects I liked best, the subjects
I wanted to excel in.
For example,
back then, I really liked math, so
my opening of the pen would be addition, subtraction,
multiplication, and division – very easy things.
Later on,
people performed this ritual.
People do a lot of spiritual things.
For example, they have to choose an
auspicious time to
start writing. Even more so,
this practice has become increasingly serious, especially
in Buddhist contexts.
For instance, they have to wear clothes that
match their birth year and zodiac sign,
and choose pens that are the right color to match
their birth year and zodiac sign. They even have to consider
the direction of their desks and
writing materials. All of this
stems from the desire for
smooth progress in their work and career
advancement. Because of this desire,
they come up with many such practices.
Today, Tâm Chế Quán would like to share
with you this topic
through a question a reader sent
to Tâm Chế Quán. The question is:
How should one start writing at the beginning of the year to
have good luck all year?
My friends believe that...  If you want
good luck in your studies and exams throughout the year,
you need to pay attention to the following things when starting the year:
First, choose an auspicious day and time
to begin writing. This is especially
important; starting at the wrong time
will bring bad luck and misfortune for the whole year. Second, when
starting to write, wear clothes that match your element, the pen
must not be clogged with ink, and the notebook must not be torn for good
luck. Otherwise, you
will have a year of bad luck, difficulties, and
obstacles. Third, choose famous quotes or
sayings to start writing or do homework for
subjects you like for it to be effective.
I would like you to explain to me,
from a Buddhist perspective, whether
these beliefs are correct.
How should I start writing at the beginning of the year to
have good luck in my studies and exams throughout the year?
Thank you, teacher. (This student sent this message
to the Tâm Chư HN Quán with the desire to
know
if this act of starting to write is correct from a Buddhist perspective. If so, how does it relate to their studies, career, and aspirations?)
Given this situation, how
can we achieve academic success, intelligence, and
career advancement?
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, whatever
we desire for good fortune is
right. That is,
our aspirations are all correct.
For example, if we aspire to
academic success and a successful career,
that is a correct aspiration. As for the cause that
leads to that result,
we must
consider the first stroke we write at the beginning of the year. We write the
first character we start, meaning we are doing something,
and we want everything
we write to be
right and beneficial
to us, isn't that a
correct aspiration? So, which character do
we write that will bring
us
good fortune later on, according to Buddhist philosophy? It is "learning, thinking, practicing." What does "learning" mean? It means contemplating that
knowledge. "Practice"
means putting that knowledge into practice. If
we learn, think, and practice, then we are truly successful.  If the result is
good, then we will have blessings, and
our wishes will soon be
fulfilled because our blessings will increase,
right? To increase blessings,
according to the mind and the contemplation, if the
first stroke of the pen is not just a single line,
but a piece of writing, a
piece about filial piety,
sit down and write about filial piety, right?
Writing about it will help us
adjust our behavior and thoughts
regarding filial piety.
For
example, if we are already working,
we should write down
how we will earn money and take care of our parents.
If we are not yet working and
earning money, we should do
whatever we can
to increase our parents' blessings.
For those of us who are studying,
we should strive for
good results to make our parents happy, and we should
associate with good friends so that our
parents won't be troubled, right? Then
we
can, for example, with the mind
and the contemplation...  For example, if someone
has the karmic affinity to become a monk or nun,
what should they do? How should they practice to dedicate the merit they receive to their parents, ancestors, and relatives? Is it true that filial piety is so important that
it brings blessings? There's a saying: "A
filial person's filial piety touches
heaven; a filial person's filial piety touches earth; a filial person's filial
piety touches all living beings."
Therefore, filial piety generates countless good deeds,
dear fellow practitioners. Filial piety generates countless good deeds.
Whatever good wishes our parents have,
we should fulfill them within
our means. If our parents have
n't yet attained goodness or enlightenment,
we should strive to do
good deeds and dedicate the merit to them so that they have the karmic affinity
to attain enlightenment.
As a disciple of the Buddha, the Buddha taught: "If parents are not yet good,
children must guide them into the path of enlightenment.
If parents haven't yet attained enlightenment or taken refuge in the
Three Jewels, children must do everything to
guide them to enlightenment and help
them take refuge in the Three Jewels. That is the
duty of a child, as stated in the Vu
Lan Sutra."  The teachings are very clear, so the
first word I write to bring blessings for the whole
year, and to
guide me in doing good deeds and
striving tirelessly throughout the
year, is "Filial Piety." For example, someone
who puts filial piety first
will treat their
spouse well, not causing their parents
sadness. They will care for their
children, wanting their family to
have a good reputation, a
good order, and
be
praised by the villagers. A filial person doesn't
associate with bad friends, does
n't drink, gamble,
or be lazy. A
filial person is always
striving. Therefore, a filial person who puts "Filial
Piety" first in their writing
will truly have
good actions and good results throughout the
year. Everything will develop better than
before, karmic obstacles will be eliminated, and
misfortunes will be dispelled. So, you can start
writing at any time.  After New
Year's Eve, the first thing is to open your
heart and dedicate the merit to your parents,
right? If your parents are
there,
when the family is at home, we usually offer
prayers and food after New Year's Eve, and then
we use
our actions to offer to our parents,
right? For those who are
far away, we do some good deed and dedicate the merit
to them. Not
everyone lives near their parents, right?
So we
do good deeds and dedicate the merit to our
parents, right from the moment of New Year's Eve onwards, right? Then we set a
plan
for ourselves to strive for: open our hearts
first, then start writing. You can start writing at any time.
Any time is
auspicious for those who do good, but for
those who do evil,
any time is inauspicious. For example,
any time you go to a temple will get you arrested, right?
Any time you go to fight will sooner or later get you
into trouble with the police, right? Even during an
auspicious hour, if you steal, you'll still get caught.  You'll encounter
the police if you go out during an auspicious hour. If you
do anything that causes social unrest, you'll
be arrested sooner or later. So, the timing is crucial. A good
heart brings good fortune; a bad heart brings
suffering and misfortune. For example, during
wartime, when the Americans dropped bombs, it wasn't during an
auspicious hour that the bombs didn't fall
on our houses, was it? And it wasn't during an
inauspicious hour that we could
n't catch the enemy, was it? When we
defend our country, even if they invade, even during an auspicious hour,
we'll still shoot them down,
right? Therefore,
we practice Buddhism and gradually
abandon
incorrect viewpoints. We
return to the Buddha, who is the one who
explains everything to us, who knows everything clearly, and who
enlightens
us. So, as human beings, we should take
filial piety as our foundation.  Filial piety is the
practice of filial devotion.
In a person's life, if one
focuses solely on filial piety, then
those who pursue spiritual practice will diligently attain enlightenment, and
those who remain at home will diligently work and
achieve success. Isn't that right?
Because of filial piety, people can accomplish many things.
Of course, success is
relative to
one's own efforts. Therefore, we should write down the
word "filial piety,"
write down a plan of what we should
strive for in our lives to
serve our parents, grandparents, and ancestors. Then
we will receive good things,
all good things. With a pure heart,
I wish all fellow practitioners, friends, and their families a
new year filled with peace, happiness, and
filial devotion.
Goodbye and see
you again in the next questions.
[music] [
music]